Create google_play_privacy.md (#3430)
braze-inc/braze-docs: _docs/_developer_guide/platform_integration_guides/android/google_play_privacy.md

---
nav_title: Answers for Google Play Store Privacy Questions
article_title: Answers for Google Play Store Privacy Questions
page_order: 9
platform: 
  - Android
  - FireOS
description: "This article covers how to answer Google Play Privacy questions"
---
<style>
table td {
    word-break: break-word;
}
</style>

# Google Play Privacy Questionaire

> Google requires you to disclose your apps' privacy and security practices when submitting to the Google Play Consolse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting April 2022, Android developers will be required to complete the [Google Play's Data safety form](https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/10787469) to disclose privacy and security practices.
```

> This guide will give you information on how Braze handles your app data to help you answer the questions. As the app developer, you are in control of what data Braze receives. Data received by Braze is processed according to your instructions. This is what Google classifies as a [service provider][3]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide explains how Braze handles your app data and will provide information related to this new form. 

As the app developer, you are in control of what data you send to Braze. Data received by Braze is processed according to your instructions. This is what Google classifies as a [service provider][3]. 
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

{% alert important %}
**Note**:  This article provides information related to the data the Braze SDK processes as related to Google Safety Section Questionnaire. This article is not providing legal advice, so we recommend consulting with your legal team prior to submitting any information to Google.
{% endalert %}
```

|Questions|Answers for Braze SDK|
|---|---|

> |Does your app collect or share any of the required user data types?|Yes, but what data is collected is configured by the app developer|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Does your app collect or share any of the required user data types?|Yes, the Braze Android SDK collects data as configured by the app developer|
```

|Is all of the user data collected by your app encrypted in transit?|Yes|
|Do you provide a way for users to request that their data is deleted?|Yes|

> For more information about how to handle user requests for their data and deletion, see [Braze Data Retention Information][1]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about how to handle user requests for their data and deletion, see [Braze Data Retention Information][1].
```

> For the data collected by Braze, that's going to be dependent on what data you as an app developer choose to collect.  While Braze has fields for the most common data (name, email, etc), users may also use Custom Attributes in order to store any information.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data collected by Braze is determined by your specific integration and the user data you choose to collect. To learn more about what data Braze collects by default, and how to disable certain attributes, please see our [SDK Data Collection Overview](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/data_and_analytics/user_data_collection/sdk_data_collection/#minimum-integration)
```

<table id="datatypes">
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th width="25%">Category</th>
            <th width="25%">Data type</th>
            <th width="50%">Braze Usage</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan="2">Location</td>
            <td>Approximate location</td>

>             <td rowspan="15">Only data that is configured by you to be sent to Braze.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td rowspan="15">Not collected by default.</td>
```

        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Precise location</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan="9">Personal Info</td>
            <td>Name</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Email address</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>User IDs</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Address</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Phone number</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Race and ethnicity</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Political or regligious beliefs</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Sexual orientation</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Other info</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan="4">Financial info</td>
            <td>User payment info</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Purchase history</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Credit score</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Other financial info</td>      
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan="2">Health and Fitness</td>
            <td>Health info</td>

>             <td rowspan="2">Only data that is configured by you to be sent to Braze. INSERT HIPAA STUFF HERE?</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td rowspan="2">Not collected by default.</td>
```

        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Fitness info</td>     
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan="3">Messages</td>
            <td>Emails</td>

>             <td rowspan="2">Only data that is configured by you to be sent to Braze.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td rowspan="2">Not collected by default.</td>
```

        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>SMS or MMS</td>          
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Other in-app messages</td>

>             <td>If configured by you Braze may generate In-App Messages and Push notification that are sent to users, and we store read-indicators on them.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>If you send In-app messages or push notifications through Braze, we collect information on when users have opened or read these messages.</td>
```

        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan="2">Photos and videos</td>
            <td>Photos</td>

>             <td rowspan="8">No.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td rowspan="8">Not collected</td>
```

        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Videos</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan="3">Audio files</td>
            <td>Voice or sound recordings</td>
        </tr>        
        <tr>
            <td>Music files</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Other audio files</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Files and docs</td>
            <td>Files and docs</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Calendar</td>
            <td>Calendar events</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Contacts</td>
            <td>Contacts</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan="5">App activity</td>
            <td>App interactions</td>

>             <td>Only data that is configured by you to be sent to Braze.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>Braze collects session activity data by default. All other interactions and activity is determined by your app's custom integration.</td>
```

        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>In-app search history</td>

>             <td>No.</td>            

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>Not collected.</td>            
```

        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Installed apps</td>

>             <td>No.</td>            

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>Not collected.</td>            
```

        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Other user-generated content</td>

>             <td rowspan="2">Only data that is configured by you to be sent to Braze.</td>            

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td rowspan="2">Not collected by default.</td>            
```

        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Other actions</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Web browsing</td>
            <td>Web browsing history</td>

>             <td>No.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>Not collected.</td>
```

        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan="3">App info and performance</td>
            <td>Crash logs</td>

>             <td>Yes, Braze does collect crash logs for errors that occur within the SDK. This contains the user's phone model and OS level, along with a Braze specific user ID.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>Braze collects crash logs for errors that occur within the SDK. This contains the user's phone model and OS level, along with a Braze specific user ID.</td>
```

        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Diagnostics</td>

>             <td>No.</td>            

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>Not collected.</td>            
```

        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Other app performance data</td>

>             <td>No.</td>            

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>Not collected.</td>
```

        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Device or other IDs</td>
            <td>Device or other IDs</td>

>             <td>Yes, Braze generates a random ID for your device.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>Braze generates a random ID for each user's device.</td>
```

        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

> You can also see the other device data that Braze collects, along with how to disable them, that falls oustide of Google Play's Data Safety guidelines [here][2]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about other device data that Braze collects which may fall outside the scope of Google Play's Data Safety guidelines, see our [Android Storage Overview][2] and our [SDK Data Collection Options](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/data_and_analytics/user_data_collection/sdk_data_collection/).
```

---
nav_title: Answers for Google Play Store Privacy Questions
article_title: Answers for Google Play Store Privacy Questions
page_order: 9
platform: 
  - Android
  - FireOS
description: "This article covers how to answer Google Play Privacy questions"
---
<style>
table td {
    word-break: break-word;
}
</style>

# Google Play Privacy Questionaire

> Starting April 2022, Android developers will be required to complete the [Google Play's Data safety form](https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/10787469) to disclose privacy and security practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting April 2022, Android developers will be required to complete [Google Play's Data safety form](https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/10787469) to disclose privacy and security practices.
```

This guide explains how Braze handles your app data and will provide information related to this new form. 

As the app developer, you are in control of what data you send to Braze. Data received by Braze is processed according to your instructions. This is what Google classifies as a [service provider][3]. 

{% alert important %}
**Note**:  This article provides information related to the data the Braze SDK processes as related to Google Safety Section Questionnaire. This article is not providing legal advice, so we recommend consulting with your legal team prior to submitting any information to Google.

> {% endalert %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% endalert %}

```

---

> nav_title: Answers for Google Play Store Privacy Questions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nav_title: Google Play Privacy Questionnaire
```

article_title: Answers for Google Play Store Privacy Questions
page_order: 9
platform: 
  - Android
  - FireOS
description: "This article covers how to answer Google Play Privacy questions"
---
<style>
table td {
    word-break: break-word;
}
</style>

# Google Play Privacy Questionaire

> Starting April 2022, Android developers will be required to complete [Google Play's Data safety form](https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/10787469) to disclose privacy and security practices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As of April 2022, Android developers are required to complete [Google Play's Data safety form](https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/10787469) to disclose privacy and security practices.
```

This may help with staleness

> Starting April 2022, Android developers will be required to complete [Google Play's Data safety form](https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/10787469) to disclose privacy and security practices.

Reviewer 3: All links (e.g. `[Google Play's Data safety form](https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/10787469)`) should be in the `[link text](link identifier)` format like on line 22. I.e. put this link at the bottom.

> This guide explains how Braze handles your app data and will provide information related to this new form. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This guide provides instructions on how to fill out this new form with information on how Braze handles your app data.
```

As the app developer, you are in control of what data you send to Braze. Data received by Braze is processed according to your instructions. This is what Google classifies as a [service provider][3]. 

{% alert important %}
**Note**:  This article provides information related to the data the Braze SDK processes as related to Google Safety Section Questionnaire. This article is not providing legal advice, so we recommend consulting with your legal team prior to submitting any information to Google.
{% endalert %}

|Questions|Answers for Braze SDK|
|---|---|
|Does your app collect or share any of the required user data types?|Yes, the Braze Android SDK collects data as configured by the app developer|
|Is all of the user data collected by your app encrypted in transit?|Yes|
|Do you provide a way for users to request that their data is deleted?|Yes|

For more information about how to handle user requests for their data and deletion, see [Braze Data Retention Information][1].

> The data collected by Braze is determined by your specific integration and the user data you choose to collect. To learn more about what data Braze collects by default, and how to disable certain attributes, please see our [SDK Data Collection Overview](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/data_and_analytics/user_data_collection/sdk_data_collection/#minimum-integration).

Reviewer 3: Use a shortlink here as well.

> The data collected by Braze is determined by your specific integration and the user data you choose to collect. To learn more about what data Braze collects by default, and how to disable certain attributes, please see our [SDK Data Collection Overview](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/data_and_analytics/user_data_collection/sdk_data_collection/#minimum-integration)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data collected by Braze is determined by your specific integration and the user data you choose to collect. To learn more about what data Braze collects by default, and how to disable certain attributes, please see our [SDK Data Collection Overview](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/data_and_analytics/user_data_collection/sdk_data_collection/#minimum-integration).
```

        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>In-app search history</td>
            <td>No.</td>            
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Installed apps</td>
            <td>No.</td>            
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Other user-generated content</td>
            <td rowspan="2">Only data that is configured by you to be sent to Braze.</td>            
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Other actions</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Web browsing</td>
            <td>Web browsing history</td>
            <td>No.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan="3">App info and performance</td>
            <td>Crash logs</td>
            <td>Braze collects crash logs for errors that occur within the SDK. This contains the user's phone model and OS level, along with a Braze specific user ID.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Diagnostics</td>
            <td>Not collected.</td>            
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Other app performance data</td>
            <td>Not collected.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Device or other IDs</td>
            <td>Device or other IDs</td>

>             <td>Braze generates a random ID for each user's device.</td>

Reviewer 2: Maybe refer to the "Device ID" row in https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/data_and_analytics/user_data_collection/sdk_data_collection#minimum-integration

Author: You mean just copy and paste that text here?  Or try to also link to that row?

        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

> To learn more about other device data that Braze collects which may fall outside the scope of Google Play's Data Safety guidelines, see our [Android Storage Overview][2] and our [SDK Data Collection Options](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/data_and_analytics/user_data_collection/sdk_data_collection/).

Reviewer 3: use a shortlink here as well.

For more information about how to handle user requests for their data and deletion, see [Braze Data Retention Information][1].

> The data collected by Braze is determined by your specific integration and the user data you choose to collect. To learn more about what data Braze collects by default, and how to disable certain attributes, please see our [SDK Data Collection Options][5]].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data collected by Braze is determined by your specific integration and the user data you choose to collect. To learn more about what data Braze collects by default, and how to disable certain attributes, please see our [SDK Data Collection Options][5].
```

        <tr>
            <td>Device or other IDs</td>
            <td>Device or other IDs</td>

>             <td>Braze generates a deviced ID to differentiate users’ devices, and ensure messages are sent to the correct intended device.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <td>Braze generates a device ID to differentiate users’ devices, and ensure messages are sent to the intended device.</td>
```
